# Automated-Attendance-System-using-OpenCV
This is a single program, GUI is not there with the program.


Maintaining attendance is very important in all the institutes for keeping check on the performance of students. In most of the institutions, student attendances are being  manually taken by the use of attendance sheets issued by the department heads .The teacher takes the attendance manually by calling each student’s name to check whether he/she is present in class or not. This procedure is tedious, time saving and inaccurate as some students often give calls for their absent friends. This method also makes it bit hard to track the attendance of each and every students in a large classroom . In this project, we propound the design and use of a face detection and recognition system to automatically detect students attending a lecture in a classroom and mark their attendance by recognizing their faces. While other biometric methods of identification  can be more perfect, students usually have to wait for long at the time they enter the classroom for attendance. Face recognition is chose owing to its non-invasive nature and familiarity as people primarily recognize other people based on their facial features. This facial biometric system will consist of an enrollment procedure in which the unique features of a persons’ face will be stored in the database and then the procedures of identification and verification. In these, the detected face in an image (obtained from the camera) will be compared with the previously stored faces captured at the time of enrollment.
